.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (c) 2015-2020 SUSE LLC
.\" * Authors: Howard Guo
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH sapconf 7 "May 2020" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sapconf \- Kernel and system configuration for SAP products

.SH DESCRIPTION
For compatibility reasons the command sapconf(8) exists.
.PP
sapconf automatically optimises kernel parameters and system configuration for running SAP workloads like NetWeaver, Sybase/ASE, BOBJ and HANA and Business One softwares.
.br
sapconf is \fBno longer\fP working on top of the tune daemon.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The main customization can be done in the central configuration file \fI/etc/sysconfig/sapconf\fP of sapconf.
.br
All parameters to be set by sapconf are descibed in detail within this file and will be read from this file.
.br
Be in mind: Higher or lower system values set by the system, the SAP installer or by the administrator using sysctl command or sysctl configuration files will be overwritten by sapconf, if they are part of the sapconf sysconfig file.
.br
During the package update of sapconf existing former custom tuned profiles related to sapconf in \fI/etc/tuned\fP are preserved in \fI/var/lib/sapconf/saved_configs\fP. Changed parameter values from an existing former custom tuned profile are automatically added to the related sysconfig file.
.PP
The process is splitted in 2 scripts. The \fIcommon.sh\fP is inherited by all profiles and \fIprofiles.sh\fP will do the whole tuning for the selected profile.
.PP
Every tuning action is logged to \fI/var/log/sapconf.log\fP

.SH ACTIVATION
To activate a sapconf tuning profile, run as root:
.PP
/usr/sbin/sapconf <profile>
.br
valid values for <profile> are \fInetweaver\fP,\fIhana\fP, \fIb1\fP, \fIase\fP, \fIsybase\fP, \fIbobj\fP. The sapconf internal representation of these values will be stored in \fI/var/lib/sapconf/act_profile\fP.
.PP
For the sapconf internal representation (value stored in \fI/var/lib/sapconf/act_profile\fP or \fI/var/lib/sapconf/last_profile\fP) the following mapping will be used:
.br
netweaver - sapconf-netweaver
.br
hana, b1 - sapconf-hana
.br
ase, sybase - sapconf-ase
.br
bobj - sapconf-bobj
.PP
Make sure that the sapconf service is enabled and running.
.br
This is normally done automatically after the sapconf package installation.
.PP
Check
.br
systemctl status sapconf.service
.PP
Enable
.br
systemctl enabled sapconf.service
.PP
Start
.br
systemctl start sapconf.service

If the start of the sapconf.service failed, use the command '\fBsystemctl status sapconf -l\fR' to get detailed information about the failure.

If you see the error message:
.br
\fBnon-sapconf tuning profile configured. Skipping activation. See man sapconf for details.\fR

please check the active sapconf tuning profile by '\fBcat /var/lib/sapconf/act_profile\fR' and change it to one of the pre\-defined profiles listed below by '\fB/usr/sbin/sapconf <profile>\fR'.

.SH PROFILES
At the moment we're providing the following pre\-defined profiles:
.TP
.BI "sapconf\-netweaver"
Tuning profile for SAP NetWeaver. It is the default profile. If no sapconf profile is active and there is no information about the last used sapconf profile available in \fI/var/lib/sapconf/last_profile\fR, \fBsapconf(8)\fR will activiate SAP NetWeaver tuning profile during start.
See the man page \fBprofile-sapconf-netweaver(7)\fR for details.
.br
To get a better base in the future for mixed HANA and ABAB workloads on one system, sapconf will use the same tuning values for HANA and NetWeaver workloads. That means the use of the same configuration files and scripts for both profiles
.PP
.TP
.BI "sapconf\-hana"
Tuning profile for SAP HANA. See the man page \fBprofile-sapconf-hana(7)\fR for details.
.br
To get a better base in the future for mixed HANA and ABAB workloads on one system, sapconf will use the same tuning values for HANA and NetWeaver workloads. That means the use of the same configuration files and scripts for both profiles
.PP
.TP
.BI "sapconf\-ase"
Profile for SAP ASE (Sybase) tuning. See the man page \fBprofile-sapconf-ase(7)\fR for details.
.PP
.TP
.BI "sapconf\-bobj"
Profile for SAP Business OBJects (BOBJ) tuning. See the man page \fBprofile-sapconf-bobj(7)\fR for details.

.SH "SAP NOTES"
All settings are done according to SAP note number 900929, 941735, 1557506, 1771258, 1980196, 1984787, 2031375, 2055470, 2131662, 2205917, 2382421 and 2534844
.br
See the comments in the central sapconf configuration file \fI/etc/sysconfig/sapconf\fR or \fBsapconf(5)\fP for details.

.SH "PACKAGE REQUIREMENTS"
The following package requirements exist for the sapconf package:
.TP 4
.BI "sysstat" 
service is started after package installation (see SAP Note 1984787)
.PP
.TP 4
.BI "uuidd.socket"
service is enabled and started after package installation (see SAP Note 1984787)
.PP
.TP 4
.BI "sapinit-systemd-compat"
installation requirement for SLES12GA and SLES12SP1 (see SAP Note 1984787). This package adds the needed drop-in file to the systemd configuration and told the daemon to re-read its configuration.
.PP
Note: These settings are profile independent. They will be applied during the post stage of the sapconf package installation.
.PP
Note: If the package sapconf is removed from the system, the following settings will still remain:
.TP 4
.BI "UserTasksMax setting in /etc/systemd/logind.conf.d/sap.conf"
Please remove the file manually, if it is not needed any longer.
.br
Note: A reboot is needed after the removal of the file to get the change take effect.
.PP
.TP 4
.BI "Maximum number of open file descriptors in /etc/security/limits.conf"
Please remove the entries manually, if they are not needed any longer.
.PP
.TP 4
.BI "A running sysstat service."
Please stop the sysstat service manually, if it is not needed any longer.
.PP
.TP 4
.BI /etc/sysconfig/sapconf
The central configuration file of sapconf is not removed during package removal.
.PP
.TP 4
.BI /var/lib/sapconf/saved_configs
Private copies of sapconf related former tuned profiles moved from /etc/tuned during the package update are not removed during package removal.
.PP
.TP 4
.BI /var/log/sapconf.log
The log file of sapconf will not be removed during package removal.
.PP

.SH "FILES"
.PP
\fI/etc/sysconfig/sapconf\fR
.RS 4
central configuration file
.br
Here you can find all parameters, wich are affected by sapconf. The actual setting value, the source SAP Note, a short explanation and where this parameter is set.
.br
If you change parameter values please don't forget to reload sapconf service to get the changes take effect.
.PP
The package installation of sapconf will have regard for changes made to /etc/sysconfig/sapconf. In some cases the old configuration file is preserved as /etc/sysconfig/sapconf.rpmsave and the new sapconf sysconfig file is copied to /etc/sysconfig/sapconf. Please make sure that you merge needed changes from this file to the new /etc/sysconfig/sapconf file before you restart the sapconf service.
.RE
.PP
\fI/var/lib/sapconf/saved_state/\fR
.RS 4
sapconf was designed to preserve the state of the system before starting the SAP specific tuning, so that it will be possible to restore this previous state of the system, if the SAP specific tuning is no longer needed or should be changed.

This system state is saved during the 'start' of the sapconf service in the sapconf internal used files in /var/lib/sapconf/saved_state. The content of these files highly depends on the previous state of the system.
.br
If the system was tuned by sapconf, no further monitoring of the system parameters are done, so changes of sapconf relevant parameters will not be observed. If the sapconf service is stopped, then first the values read from the /var/lib/sapconf/saved_state files will be set to the system to restore the previous system state and then the corresponding saved_state file will be removed.

Please do not change or remove files in this directory. The knowledge about the previous system state gets lost and the stop functionality of the sapconf service will be destructed. So you will lose the capability to revert back the tunings sapconf has done.
.RE
.PP
\fI/var/lib/sapconf/saved_configs/\fR
.RS 4
Private copies of sapconf related former tuned profiles moved from /etc/tuned during the package update can be found here, if these profile directories were available during the package update. So it's possible to check, if there are custom specific tuning values missing in the current configuration in \fI/etc/sysconfig/sapconf\fR
.RE
.PP
\fI/var/lib/sapconf/last_profile\fR
.RS 4
contains the last used sapconf profile. The file will be written during stop of the sapconf service and the content will be used during start of the sapconf service.
.RE
.PP
\fI/var/lib/sapconf/act_profile\fR
.RS 4
The file will be written during start of the sapconf service. It contains the current applied profile, if sapconf is active.
.br
If sapconf is stopped, this file is empty.
.br
Valid profile representations inside this file are: \fBsapconf-netweaver\fR, \fBsapconf-hana\fR, \fBsapconf-ase\fR, \fBsapconf-bobj\fR
.RE
.PP
\fI/var/log/sapconf\.log\fR
.RS 4
log file of sapconf
.RE

.SH SEE\ ALSO
.BR sapconf (5)
.BR sapconf (8)
.BR profiles\-sapconf\-hana(7)
.BR profiles\-sapconf\-netweaver(7)
.BR profiles\-sapconf\-ase(7)
.BR profiles\-sapconf\-bobj(7)

.SH AUTHORS
.na
Werner Fink, Fabian Herschel, Howard Guo, Angela Briel
.nf
