.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (c) 2017-2023 SUSE LLC
.\" * Authors: Angela Briel
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH sapconf 5 "November 2024" "sapconf configuration file"
.SH NAME
sapconf \- central configuration file of sapconf

.SH DESCRIPTION
This man page documents format and content of the central configuration file of sapconf.
.br
The \fI/etc/sysconfig/sapconf\fR file uses the sysconfig\-file format.
.br
The file contains all parameters that can be set for the system tuning of sapconf(7).
.PP
In the file you can find the actual recommended value, the source SAP Note, a short explanation and where this parameter is set.
.br
If you change parameter values please don't forget to restart sapconf service to get the changes take effect.
.PP
The package installation of sapconf will have regard for changes made to /etc/sysconfig/sapconf. In some cases the old configuration file is preserved as /etc/sysconfig/sapconf.rpmsave and the new sapconf sysconfig file is copied to /etc/sysconfig/sapconf. Please make sure that you merge needed changes from this file to the new /etc/sysconfig/sapconf file before you restart the sapconf service.

.SH DESCRIPTION OF THE PARAMETERS
.PP
.TP 4
.BI VSZ_TMPFS_PERCENT=75
Size of the requested tmpfs in percent of the virtual memory. Depending on the size of the virtual memory (physical+swap) the value is calculated by (RAM + SWAP) * VSZ_TMPFS_PERCENT/100.
.PP
.RS 4
Set in the common part (tune_preparation) of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 941735
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI SHMALL=1152921504606846720
The default tuning limit of the maximum total number of shared memory pages. Hence, SHMALL should always be at least ceil(shmmax/PAGE_SIZE). To determine the current page size run the command "getconf PAGESIZE".
.br
\fBkernel.shmall\fP is set to the SHMALL value from this file
.PP
.RS 4
Linux kernel setting, set in the common part (tune_preparation) of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 941735, HANA Administration Guide
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI SHMMAX=18446744073709551615
The lower tuning limit of the maximum amount of a single shared memory segment in Bytes.
.br
\fBkernel.shmmax\fP is set to the SHMMAX value from this file
.br
SHMMAX set to ULONG_MAX (18446744073709551615)
.PP
.RS 4
Linux kernel setting, set in the common part (tune_preparation) of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 941735, HANA Administration Guide
.RE
.PP
\fBLIMIT_1="@sapsys soft nofile 1048576"\fP
.br
\fBLIMIT_2="@sapsys hard nofile 1048576"\fP
.br
\fBLIMIT_3="@sdba soft nofile 1048576"\fP
.br
\fBLIMIT_4="@sdba hard nofile 1048576"\fP
.br
\fBLIMIT_5="@dba soft nofile 1048576"\fP
.br
\fBLIMIT_6="@dba hard nofile 1048576"\fP
.RS 4
Maximum number of open files for SAP application groups sapsys, sdba, and dba.
Consult with manual page limits.conf(5) for the correct syntax.
.PP
Limit settings in \fB/etc/security/limits.d/sapconf-nofile.conf\fP during the common part (tune_preparation) of the scripting
.br
This file will be removed during revert (change of tuning profile or stop of sapconf service.) and during the sapconf package removal.
.br
SAP Note 1771258 (rev. 6 from 05.11.2021)
.RE
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI MAX_MAP_COUNT=2147483647
The value is the maximum number of memory map areas a process may have.
Memory map areas are used as a side-effect of calling malloc, directly by mmap and mprotect, and also when loading shared libraries.
.br
\fBvm.max_map_count\fP is set to the MAX_MAP_COUNT value from this file
.br
MAX_MAP_COUNT set to MAX_INT (2147483647)
.PP
.RS 4
Memory Management setting in the common part (tune_preparation) of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 1980196, 900929, HANA Administration Guide
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI SHMMNI=32768
The value is the maximum number of shared memory identifies available in the system. 
.br
\fBkernel.shmmni\fP is set to the SHMMNI value from this file
.PP
.RS 4
Linux kernel setting, set in the SAP tuning part of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2534844, HANA Administration Guide
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI DIRTY_BYTES=629145600
Contains the amount of dirty memory at which a process generating disk writes will itself start writeback.
.br
Note: \fBvm.dirty_bytes\fP is the counterpart of \fBvm.dirty_ratio\fP. Only one of them may be specified at a time. When one sysctl is written it is immediately taken into account to evaluate the dirty memory limits and the other appears as 0 when read.
.br
Note: when stopping sapconf service, both values will be set back to their previous settings.
.br
Note: the minimum value allowed for dirty_bytes is two pages (in bytes); any value lower than this limit will be ignored and the old configuration will be retained.
.br
\fBvm.dirty_bytes\fP is set to the DIRTY_BYTES value from this file
.PP
.RS 4
Memory Management setting in the SAP tuning part of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2578899
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI DIRTY_BG_BYTES=314572800
Contains the amount of dirty memory at which the background kernel flusher threads will start writeback.
.br
Note: \fBvm.dirty_background_bytes\fP is the counterpart of \fBvm.dirty_background_ratio\fP.  Only one of them may be specified at a time. When one sysctl is written it is immediately taken into account to evaluate the dirty memory limits and the other appears as 0 when read.
.br
Note: when stopping sapconf service, both values will be set back to their previous settings.
.br
\fBvm.dirty_background_bytes\fP is set to the DIRTY_BG_BYTES value from this file
.PP
.RS 4
Memory Management setting in the SAP tuning part of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2578899
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI TCP_SLOW_START=0
If enabled (=1), provide RFC 2861 behavior and time out the congestion window after an idle period. An idle period is defined as the current RTO (retransmission timeout). If disabled (=0), the congestion window will not be timed out after an idle period.
.br
This value is important for large ScaleOut HANA clusters and HANA2 in general. So disable TCP slow start on idle connections
.PP
.RS 4
IO related setting \fBnet.ipv4.tcp_slow_start_after_idle\fP during the SAP tuning part of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2382421
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI KSM=0
Kernel Samepage Merging (KSM). KSM allows for an application to register with the kernel so as to have its memory pages merged with other processes that also register to have their pages merged. For KVM the KSM mechanism allows for guest virtual machines to share pages with each other. In todays environment where many of the guest operating systems like XEN, KVM are similar and are running on same host machine, this can result in significant memory savings. Default value is 0.
.PP
.RS 4
Set in \fB/sys/kernel/mm/ksm/run\fP during the SAP tuning part of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2684254
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI NUMA_BALANCING=0
Enables/disables automatic page fault based NUMA memory balancing. Memory is moved automatically to nodes that access it often. On NUMA machines, there is a performance penalty if remote memory is accessed by a CPU. When this feature is enabled the kernel samples what task thread is accessing memory by periodically unmapping pages and later trapping a page fault. At the time of the page fault, it is determined if the data being accessed should be migrated to a local memory node. The unmapping of pages and trapping faults incur additional overhead that ideally is offset by improved memory locality but there is no universal guarantee. If the target workload is already bound to NUMA nodes then this feature should be disabled. Otherwise, if the system overhead from the feature is too high then the rate the kernel samples for NUMA hinting faults may be controlled by the numa_balancing_scan_period_min_ms, numa_balancing_scan_delay_ms, numa_balancing_scan_period_max_ms, numa_balancing_scan_size_mb, and numa_balancing_settle_count sysctls.
.br
Turn off autoNUMA balancing. 0 to disable, 1 to enable
.PP
.RS 4
Set in \fB/proc/sys/kernel/numa_balancing\fP during the SAP tuning part of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2684254
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI THP=madvise
Configure transparent hugepages.
.br
Set to 'never' to disable or to 'always' to enable or 'madvise'.
.br
\fBmadvise\fP will enter direct reclaim like 'always' but only for regions that
are have used madvise(MADV_HUGEPAGE). This is the default behaviour.
.PP
.RS 4
Set in \fB/sys/kernel/mm/transparent_hugepage/enabled\fP during the SAP tuning part of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2131662, 2684254, 2031375
.RE
.PP
.TP 0
.BI "Linux paging improvements"
no longer supported since SLE15.
.PP
.TP 4
.BI PERF_BIAS=
Energy Performance Bias EPB (applies to Intel-based systems only)
.br
We renamed the parameter to PERF_BIAS to make a clear distinction to the former used tuned.conf parameter 'energy_perf_bias'

PERF_BIAS: performance - 0, normal - 6, powersave - 15
.br or any number between 0 and 15
.br
The setting is disabled by default (leave empty)
.br
When set, for all cpus the energy performance bias setting will be switched to the chosen value.
.br
If activating performance related settings a recommended value for Energy Performance Bias is 'performance' or '0'
.PP
.RS 4
Set during the performance setting part of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2684254
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI GOVERNOR=
CPU Frequency/Voltage scaling (applies to Intel-based systems only)
.br
We renamed the parameter to GOVERNOR to make a clear distinction to the former used tuned.conf parameter 'governor'

The clock frequency and voltage of modern CPUs can scale, in order to save energy when there’s less work to be done. However HANA as a high-performance database benefits from high CPU frequencies.
.br
governor: performance - 0, normal - 6, powersave - 15
.br
The setting is disabled by default (leave empty)
.br
When set, for all cpus the scaling governor setting will be switched to the chosen value.
.br
If activating performance related settings a recommended value for governor is 'performance' or '0'
.PP
.RS 4
Set during the performance setting part of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2684254
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI FORCE_LATENCY=70
force latency - configure C-States for lower latency
.br
(applies to Intel-based systems only)
.br
We renamed the parameter to FORCE_LATENCY to make a clear distinction to the former used tuned.conf parameter 'force_latency'

Input is a string, which is internally treated as a decimal (not a hexadecimal) integer number representing a maximum response time in microseconds.
.br
It is used to establish a latency upper limit by limiting the use of C-States (CPU idle or CPU latency states) to only those with an exit latency smaller than the value set here. That means only those states that require less than the requested number of microseconds to wake up are enabled, all the other C-States are disabled.

The files /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpuidle/state*/latency and /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpuidle/state*/disable are used to limit the C-States.

When set in the sysconfig file for all available CPUs all CPU latency states with a value read from /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpuidle/state*/latency >= (higher than) the value from the sysconfig file are disabled by writing '1' to /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpuidle/state*/disable

ATTENTION:
.br
not idling *at all* increases power consumption significantly and reduces the life span of the machine because of wear and tear. So do not use a too strict latency setting. For SAP HANA workloads a value of '70' microseconds (as a "light sleep") seems to be sufficient. And the impact on power consumption and life of the CPUs is less severe. But don't forget: The deeper the idle state, the larger is the exit latency.

If activating performance related settings a recommended value for force latency to start with is 70
.PP
.RS 4
Set during the performance setting part of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2684254
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI MIN_PERF_PCT=
Intel P-State driver setting
.br
(applies to Intel-based systems only and only if Intel-P-State-Driver is used)
.br
We renamed the parameter to MIN_PERF_PCT to make a clear distinction to the former used tuned.conf parameter 'min_perf_pct'

The P-State driver provides its own sysfs files to control the P-State selection. These files have been added to /sys/devices/system/cpu/intel_pstate. Any changes made to these files are applicable to all CPUs
.br
min_perf_pct: Limits the minimum P-State that will be requested by the driver. It states it as a percentage of the max (non-turbo) performance level.
.br
The setting is disabled by default (leave empty)
.br
If activating performance related settings a recommended value for MIN_PERF_PCT to start with is 100
.PP
.RS 4
Set during the performance setting part of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2684254
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI IO_SCHEDULER="noop\ none"
disk I/O scheduler
.br
We renamed the parameter to IO_SCHEDULER to make a clear distinction to the former used tuned.conf parameter 'elevator'

The default I/O scheduler for single-queued block layer devices offers satisfactory performance for wide range of I/O task, however choosing an alternative scheduler may potentially yield better latency characteristics and throughput.
.br
"noop" is an alternative scheduler, in comparison to other schedulers it may offer more consistent performance, lower computation overhead, and potentially higher throughput.
.br
For most SAP environments (RAID, storage arrays, virtualizaton) 'noop' is the better choice.
.br
With the new introduced multi-queue scheduler for block layer devices the recommended I/O scheduler is 'none' as an equivalent to 'noop' for single-queued block layer devices.

So IO_SCHEDULER can now contain a list of possible schedulers, separated by blanks, which are checked from left to right. The first one which is available in /sys/block/<device>/queue/scheduler will be used as new scheduler setting for the respective block device.

When set, all block devices on the system \fBvalid\fP for this sort of action will be switched to one of the chosen schedulers.

The following rules apply for \fBvalid\fP devices:
.RS 4
.IP \[bu]
all multipath devices (dm-*, if mpath-, but not LVM- or other dm-)
.IP \[bu]
all physical disks (indicated by device/type=0 or names like nvme*, vd*)
.br
\fBexcept\fP they are part of a device mapper construct (like mpath-).
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
Set in the common part (tune_preparation) of the scripting
.br
SAP Note 2578899
.RE
.PP
.TP 4
.BI IGNORE_RELOAD="no"
IGNORE_RELOAD does \fBnot\fR set a parameter to tune the system and has no related SAP Note.
.br
Instead IGNORE_RELOAD is used to control the '\fBsystemctl reload sapconf.service\fR' behavior. The default is '\fBno\fR', which means that the 'reload' is working as expected. Stopping and starting the tuning to apply changed parameter settings from the configuration \fI/etc/sysconfig/sapconf\fP.
.br
If set to '\fByes\fR' a '\fBsystemctl reload sapconf\fR' will do \fBnothing\fR.
.PP
.SH "FILES"
.PP
\fI/etc/sysconfig/sapconf\fR
.RS 4
central configuration file
.RE

.SH SEE\ ALSO
.BR sapconf (7)

.SH AUTHORS
.na
Angela Briel
.nf
