.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (c) 2015-2021 SUSE LLC
.\" * Authors: Howard Guo
.\" *	       Zsolt KALMAR
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH sapconf 8 "February 2021" "util-linux" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
sapconf \- Kernel and system configuration for SAP products

.SH SYNOPSIS
sapconf ACTION_NAME

.SH DESCRIPTION
sapconf activates SAP NetWeaver, SAP ASE/Sybase, SAP Business OBJects (BOBJ) or HANA/BusinessOne tuning profiles depending on the command line action input.
.\" *sapconf is deprecated in favour of tune daemon (tuned) and its profiles "sap-netweaver", "sap-hana", "sap-ase", "sap-bobj". #bnc1098352

ATTENTION - Preview: starting with SLE15 this script will not be available any longer in /usr/sbin. In the future we will only support the systemd service file 'sapconf.service'. And we will no longer distinguish between different profiles.

.SH ACTIONS

.IP \[bu]
start,restart,try-restart - If sapconf does not have any profile active and there is no information about the last used sapconf profile available in \fI/var/lib/sapconf/last_profile\fR, activate SAP NetWeaver tuning profile by default. Otherwise leave the profile choice alone and activate sapconf tuning.

If the start failed and you get the error message:
.br
\fBnon-sapconf tuning profile configured. Skipping activation. See man sapconf for details.\fR

please check the active sapconf tuning profile.

The active sapconf tuning profile can be checked by '\fBcat /run/sapconf_act_profile\fR'.
.br
To change the sapconf profile execute '\fB/usr/sbin/sapconf <profile>\fR', where <profile> is one of the pre\-defined profiles listed below

.IP \[bu]
reload - If a sapconf profile is active, stop and start the sapconf tuning.

.IP \[bu]
netweaver - Activate SAP NetWeaver tuning profile. Exit 1 on failure.

.IP \[bu]
hana,b1 - Activate SAP HANA or BusinessOne tuning profile. Exit 1 on failure.

.IP \[bu]
ase,sybase - Activate SAP ASE (Sybase) tuning profile. Exit 1 on failure.

.IP \[bu]
bobj - Activate SAP Business OBJects (BOBJ) tuning profile. Exit 1 on failure.

.IP \[bu]
stop - If a sapconf profile is active, revert the parameter settings back to the previous system settings, write the current sapconf profile to \fI/var/lib/sapconf/last_profile\fR and remove the sapconf profile from the active sapconf profile file.

.IP \[bu]
status - Report the status of sapconf service. Exit 1 on failure.

.SH SEE\ ALSO
profile-sapconf-hana(7), profile-sapconf-netweaver(7), profile-sapconf-ase(7), profile-sapconf-bobj(7)

.SH AUTHORS
.na
Werner Fink, Fabian Herschel, Howard Guo, Angela Briel
.nf
