.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (c) 2016 SUSE LINUX GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
.\" * Authors: Angela Briel <abriel@suse.com>
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH TUNED_PROFILES_SAP_BOBJ "7" "26 Apr 2017" "Adaptive system tuning daemon" "tuned"
.SH NAME
tuned\-profiles\-sap\-bobj - Tuning profile for SAP Business OBJects (BOBJ).

.SH DESCRIPTION
The tuning profile automatically optimises kernel parameters and system configuration for running SAP Business OBJects (BOBJ) softwares.

The following parameters are calculated and tuned, according to various SAP notes and best practices:
.IP \[bu]
Semaphores: kernel.semmsl, semmns, semopm, and semmni
.IP \[bu]
Shared memory segments: kernel.shmmax, shmall
.IP \[bu]
Size of tmpfs
.IP \[bu]
Maximum number of open file descriptors in /etc/security/limits.conf
.IP \[bu]
Maximum number of memory mapping regions: vm.max_map_count
.IP \[bu]
Pagecache limit: vm.pagecache_limit_mb, pagecache_limit_ignore_dirty
.IP \[bu]
CPU power management, disk cache, kernel scheduling and VM tweaks (inherited from throughput-performance profile).
.IP \[bu]
Enable uuidd.socket.

.SH "SAP NOTES"
The tuned parameters are calculated according to SAP note number 1275776, 1984787, 1557506 and the BOBJ Installation Guide for Unix.

.SH ACTIVATION
To activate the SAP Business OBJects tuning profile, run as root:

tuned-adm profile sap-bobj

.SH "FILES"
.PP
\fI/etc/sysconfig/sapconf\fR
.RS 4
Define the lower value-boundary of optimised parameters during tuning calculation.
.RE
.PP
\fI/etc/sysconfig/sapnote\-1557506\fR
.RS 4
Define the behaviour and overrides for tuning pagecache limit.
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.BR tuned\-adm (8)
.SH AUTHOR
.NF
Angela Briel <abriel@suse.com>
