.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (c) 2016 SUSE LINUX GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
.\" * Authors: Howard Guo <hguo@suse.com>
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH TUNED_PROFILES_SAP_HANA "7" "23 Feb 2016" "Adaptive system tuning daemon" "tuned"
.SH NAME
tuned\-profiles\-sap\-hana - Tuning profile for SAP HANA and Business One.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The tuning profile automatically optimises kernel parameters and system configuration for running SAP HANA and Business One softwares.

The following parameters are calculated and tuned, according to various SAP notes and best practices:
.IP \[bu]
Semaphores: kernel.semmni
.IP \[bu]
Pagecache limit: vm.pagecache_limit_mb, pagecache_limit_ignore_dirty
.IP \[bu]
Turn off KSM: /sys/kernel/mm/ksm
.IP \[bu]
Turn off NUMA-balancing: kernel.numa_balancing
.IP \[bu]
CPU power management, disk cache, kernel scheduling and VM tweaks (inherited from throughput-performance profile).
.IP \[bu]
Enable uuidd.socket.

Note that, unlike
.BR tuned-profiles-sap-netweaver (7)
, this profile does not read lower-tuning boundaries from /etc/sysconfig/sapconf.

.SH "SAP NOTES"
The tuned parameters are calculated according to SAP note number 2205917, 1557506.

.SH ACTIVATION
To activate the SAP HANA tuning profile, run as root:

tuned-adm profile sap-hana

.SH "FILES"
.PP
\fI/etc/sysconfig/sapnote\-1557506\fR
.RS 4
Define the behaviour and overrides for tuning pagecache limit.
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.BR tuned\-adm (8)
.SH AUTHOR
.NF
Howard Guo <hguo@suse.com>
