.\"/* 
.\" * All rights reserved
.\" * Copyright (c) 2016 SUSE LINUX GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
.\" * Authors: Howard Guo <hguo@suse.com>
.\" *
.\" * This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" * modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" * as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" * of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" *
.\" * This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" * but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" * MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" * GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" */
.\" 
.TH TUNED_PROFILES_SAP_NETWEAVER "7" "23 Feb 2016" "Adaptive system tuning daemon" "tuned"
.SH NAME
tuned\-profiles\-sap\-netweaver - Tuning profile for SAP Netweaver.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The tuning profile automatically optimises kernel parameters and system configuration for running SAP Netweaver softwares.

The following parameters are calculated and tuned, according to various SAP notes and best practices:
.IP \[bu]
Semaphores: kernel.semmsl, semmns, semopm, and semmni
.IP \[bu]
Shared memory segments: kernel.shmmax, shmall
.IP \[bu]
Size of tmpfs
.IP \[bu]
Maximum number of open file descriptors in /etc/security/limits.conf
.IP \[bu]
Maximum number of memory mapping regions: vm.max_map_count
.IP \[bu]
Pagecache limit: vm.pagecache_limit_mb, pagecache_limit_ignore_dirty
.IP \[bu]
CPU power management, disk cache, kernel scheduling and VM tweaks (inherited from throughput-performance profile).
.IP \[bu]
Enable uuidd.socket.

.SH "SAP NOTES"
The tuned parameters are calculated according to SAP note number 1557506, 941735.

.SH ACTIVATION
To activate the SAP Netweaver tuning profile, run as root:

tuned-adm profile sap-netweaver

.SH "FILES"
.PP
\fI/etc/sysconfig/sapconf\fR
.RS 4
Define the lower value-boundary of optimised parameters during tuning calculation.
.RE
.PP
\fI/etc/sysconfig/sapnote\-1557506\fR
.RS 4
Define the behaviour and overrides for tuning pagecache limit.
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tuned (8)
.BR tuned\-adm (8)
.SH AUTHOR
.NF
Howard Guo <hguo@suse.com>
